You recently said Hackworth was a rule follower most of his career,
but in about face the book,
he always talks about how he went against his command,
his rules,
how do you play the game,
but also act like Hackworth.
Yeah.
And so this is a classic example of the dichotomy of leadership with regard to
obeying rules and,
and Hackworth.
Absolutely obeyed the rules and he'll beat them to the,
to the extreme.
Sometimes if you remember in the book,
He,
he,
he worked in situations where he,
they were like the strictest in garrison.
So like not in combat,
just in garrison,
he would,
everything's perfect uniform.
If you remember when General Mooky Amo was on and we talked to,
we talked to him about meeting hack for the first time and you know,
it's kind of like,
what was he like?
And he was like,
oh,
he was high and tight haircut,
totally squared away.
That's following the rules to win Ti.
Mm.
And the other thing that he played,
he definitely played the,
played the game.
Hmm.
Hackworth played the game.
He developed with,
he developed relationships with,
with people that were senior to him,
people that were influential,
Sla Marshall who you went on tour with,
if you remember through Vietnam and Sla Marshall,
he didn't really even respect but SLA.
Marshall had such big influence that he said,
hey,
you know what,
how can it become Bros with this guy?
He played the game because Marshall had influence and he even took somebody
hits,
you know,
took a little frag for,
for,
for SLA Marshall [inaudible].
But at the same time,
if it's troops weren't getting the right treatment that he needed,
he would do what he needed to do.
He would break rules that take care of them if he had to.
And at the same time he would follow the rules to a t if you remember when he
took over the battalion in Vietnam,
the hopeless and wanted to turn him into the hardcore,
he brought all their crap into the middle of the thing and said,
we're going to fly out of here.
No more radios,
no more guitars,
none of this other stuff and getting it out.
So that's like following the rules to a t,
but at the same time,
if he needed to like steal food for them or steaks or something to get you,
the key would do that stuff.
So he's constantly balancing that economy.
Another thing he did is he,
he took these administrative jobs that he hated
in order to rise through the ranks in order to become,
to get,
get places to develop relationships.
So we still,
we could have more influence.
He was assigned to the Pentagon.
He,
he,
in the book,
he talks about the Pentagon being working in the Pentagon being a claustrophobic
hole no more than 20 by 20 feet with 15 other people in it.
And he talks about,
he said,
you did say your paper,
your Ian inbox would be filled when you showed up and you immediately,
the phone would be ringing.
You'd be talking to people all over the world via,
if all the people in Vietnam,
they're calling you at their their time zone.
And so he didn't like this,
but guess what got the highest possible evaluations when he left.
Why?
Because he played the game
and he built these relationships with,
with all these kernels and all these generals and all these people that had
influenced his Glover,
Johns and Pearson and Co countless others by doing what he needed to do.
And then when he needed to,
he broke,
he broke the rules and sometimes he went a little too far with breaking the
rules.
And
when he,
when he got out,
when they kind of drove him out after he did the big interview where he said,
hey,
we're not gonna win.
They went and drilled down into his camps and looked at the things that he had
going on there,
said,
oh,
you're ugly.
You're allowing this to happen and you're allowing this to happen.
So he left himself a little vulnerable by breaking the rules a little bit too
much.
So the a rule to learn from that as I don't do things that people can hold over
you.
And for me,
the things that people can hold over for you are things where you can't stand up
and say,
yes,
that's what I did.
Yes,
Hey,
my guys didn't,
hadn't had a good meal in four weeks.
They've been in the field for three of those weeks.
And when they came out,
guess what?
I,
I figured out a way to get some steak and I took it from the rear and I had it
flown up using mill using our helicopters.
And I had,
yep,
that's what I did.
And if you want to,
you want to drop the hammer on me for that.
Got It.
Now if you do that,
that's cool.
But there's some things where you break the rules where maybe you wouldn't be
able to stand up tall and proud and say,
this is what I did in his why I did it.
So you want to be careful that you don't do things that will allow people to
hold things over your head.
And for me,
things that are things like that are things that you can't stand up with your
chest out and say,
this is what I did and this is why I do.
I know it wasn't within the regulations.
This is what I did.
This is why I do it.
And if I get fired because of that.
Understood.
Check.
Now here's where you get a little,
here's where we can,
we can
question hack for sure.
Let me ask you this.
If hack would have cause.
Okay,
so he didn't play the game at the end.
He didn't play the game.
He went on an interview and said,
hey,
we're not going to win the war.
Not the way we're fighting.
We're not going to win the war.
Within a few weeks,
he was driven out of the army.
He didn't play the game at that moment.
Right.
So let me ask you this.
If he would have played the game just a little bit,
just said,
look,
we need to change our strategy if we're,
you know what I mean?
If he would've just j and then he would have stayed in and then he would have
perhaps gotten a promotion and got perhaps gotten to a position where he
actually had influence over the way the war was being fought.
If he had done that,
would he have been better off?
Would he have been able to better help the situation?
Because I don't know.
Once they drove him out,
it's not like that interview.
Well,
I don't know,
we'd have to check the check,
the historical sort of results of that interview.
It certainly started to sway public opinion and maybe that,
you know,
maybe in his mind,
hey,
I need to tell everyone what's going on so we can get out of here.
Right.
So maybe,
maybe that was the intention.
Maybe that was the result.
Maybe that helped shutdown the war eventually,
but maybe if he would have played,
continue to play the game,
he could have gotten to a position where he had more even more influence and
could have changed the way the war is being fought.
I don't know.
I'm sure we could have a long debate about that.
But that's as a leader,
something that you are going to have to weigh out all the time.
And there situations where,
uh,
and actually breaking news today,
General Maddis just put in his resignation for being secretary of defense.
So is that's a,
I'm,
we're going to have to talk about that when I get a little more information on,
is that him saying,
look,
I,
it's going to be better for me to make this statement by leaving or would he
have been better off staying there where he can at least still have a massive
amount of influence because he's the secretary of defense will have to drill
down on that one.
That's a,
hmm,
that's a good question.
Both those are good questions.
And the bottom line is if you haven't read about face,
read it and learn from a guy named Colonel David Hackworth.
Next question.
So the answer to that question was sort of another question,
kind of a question you got asked herself.
Yes.
And that's a question and I've talked about this where if I tell you echo,
hey echo,
I want you to do this mission.
I want you to do it this way.
Take your platoon and go do it.
And you disagree with what I'm telling you.
And you just say,
hey boss,
I don't want to do it that way.
And I said,
hey,
you shut up and do what I told you to do,
and you go,
you know what,
you can fire me when I'm not doing it.
I go,
okay,
fine,
you're fired and I get knucklehead over here who's a yes man.
It comes in and I tell him to go to the mission the way I told him to do it and
he goes and doesn't get to everyone killed.
Would it have been better off if you said,
okay boss,
I get it.
I,
I'll do it your way.
Here's some things I'd really like to not do,
and you go,
no.
I said,
no,
shut up.
And then you take your guys,
you mitigate everything that you can.
Actually,
there's an example of this in band of brothers where major winners is being
told,
Hey,
send a reconnaissance element across the river again tonight and he doesn't want
to do it.
The the war's almost over.
They had taken some casualties I think the night before when they did the same
type of operation and he just says,
got it boss.
And then the guys go and they sit in a,
they pretend to go out,
but they really just sit in the basement of a building on their side of the
river.
And then later on they said,
Yep,
we went,
we came back,
we didn't find anything.
Okay,
cool.
There's a perfect example.
Imagine if major winners,
Dick winters was like,
we're not doing it.
And now you're getting an ego contest with the colonel who was like,
Oh yes you are.
No,
we're not.
Okay,
fine,
you're fired.
Let me get knucklehead over here.
Who's gonna do what I told them to do?
Who is it total?
Yes,
man.
And now we take that risk and guys get killed.
So,
so who is it like there's a,
there's Dick winters played the game.
He played the game so he could still have that influence and power and,
and still protect his guys.
Yeah.
Can get complex.
It's very,
that's why leadership is hard.
Yes.
It's,
it's weird though because when you say it's complex,
when you say leadership is hard at the same time,
like you,
if you're a principled human being and you have principles and you know what's
right and you're doing the right thing for the right reason,
that decisions are actually usually a little easier,
clearer,
clearer.
Yeah.
They might not be easy,
but they're clearer.
Like,
I know what I'm supposed to do here.
I got it.
I,
I'm,
I'm gonna figure this one out.
And w this,
this I think applies to two most scenario where
like if you think of the big picture where if you're like,
hey,
I'm going to consider myself after everything's going to be said and done,
you know,
it kind of goes along with what you said.
Like,
oh,
can you stand up the stand that the prompt you,
if you consider,
okay,
look back,
you're gonna cause there's gonna come a point where you're going to look back on
this and you're going to feel the way you're going to feel right now.
But later on,
how are you going to feel about like how you handled it,
you know,
what decision you made in how you made it.
I tell kids too,
would you,
if you're,
if you're at a party,
yeah.
Or you're wherever and something's going on,
would you be proud to stand up and be,
hey,
here's the situation and I,
this is what I did and this is why I did it.
If you can't,
maybe you should really reconsider what your actions are going to be.
All right.
No Man.
It's because a lot of the times shoots where she has a kid as an adult to a lot
of the time it's like they're literally the opposite decision you like.
Especially if it's one of those like go along with the crowd kind of scenarios
where it's like,
oh yeah,
it's easy to go along there and when your kid,
especially when it involves drinking and stuff,
sometimes there's,
there's really no consequence.
You know,
whatever.
You did something dumb.
No one gets hurt or dies or nothing like that.
But every once in a while there is,
but so it's like it makes it harder because you don't like when you go do
something,
I don't know dumb,
I don't know,
a good jump off a bridge,
something drink and drive or whatever and no one dies or no one,
nothing big happens.
It sort of reinforces that maybe it might be okay,
you know,
you may be be able to slide with this behavior a little bit,
you know?
Yeah.
But at the end of the day,
you know?
Yeah.
If you can clearly see that big picture where in the future you're going to be
looking back on how you handled it.
Yeah.
Here's another thing,
same concept I used to tell,
I told my guys was you just might as well act like CNN is recording what you're
doing and it's good seeing them.
Right?
So if you want to act like an idiot,
guess what?
It's going to be on CNN because someone's got a somewhere around there,
and you might as well be saying that today as a kid,
as a teenager,
you might as well be saying,
Yep,
this is,
this is the next viral video.
This is my 15 minutes of fame is going to be me doing whatever I'm doing right
here.
So you gotta watch out for that.
Learn from hack.